Alright.
So at the end of the last video we ran this test, and we got our first results. I'm just going to run
this again on my computer.
Now we've done that approach using this globals() function. We called our globals() function there.
Now that's one way to fix the error that we had in that last video, and we can use that if we're using Python
3.5 and above. Generally though, I prefer to use the set up argument, because that works with earlier versions
and it also allows you to be more specific about the environment the code will run in.
And that's because there's often no need to pass in your module's complete namespace.
So bearing in mind those results,
what we're going to do is use, now, the setup argument instead.
And the only thing we need to provide here is our two dictionaries. Of course we've got those defined up here,
at the start of the program.
So to do that, to provide our two dictionaries, we just need to set them up and put them into a string,
and pass that string to timeit.
Let's go ahead and do that. And I'll start on line three here, and type setup
equals three double quotes backslash. And you can see in this case IntelliJ's giving us the three backslashes
so I'm just going to cut those, and come down and paste those on line 17.
But if you didn't see those double quotes like that, you just put them at the bottom and as I have done
there. Right, and now that we've done that, we can actually pass that string as the setup
argument to the timeit function, instead of globals. And we go down to our code again.
We'll remove globals, cos we're not going to be using that anymore now, and replace that with setup. So make a note of
this nested loop number here, 0.0517.
We're going to run this again.
We should see a similar time printed out.
0.0517 last time.
This is actually slightly slower, 0.05509
So you can see that it still works with his second approach using setup.
And we've got a similar time printed out.
Not exactly the same, and that's not guaranteed though,
and I'll talk about how to interpret these values in a moment.
But for now, though, we've got the timing, our first code block.
So now we can do exactly the same thing to time all three of the blocks that print the lists.
So what we're going to do is, we're just going to duplicate each line a couple of times.
Let's do that,
and we'll change these so that we're executing the other tests, so
result_2, instead of the nested_loop we're going to change that to the loop_comp,
comp, and for the third one, that's our
nested_comp.
So nested_loop, loop_comp and nested_comp. And all the other arguments are all the same.
And we'll just print the results, so Loop and comp for the next one,
and it's going to print out result_2
and then result_3. We're going to change that up here,
result_3, and our third output is going to be nested_comp. Ok, so it's results one, two and three.
OK let's just run this and see what we get.
You can see we've got roughly, in order, of least amount of time to most, with the output as you can see there on the screen;
0.052, 0,053, 0.060. We'll run it again, different results this time. The Nested comp.
Basically, you should be finding that the loops are consistently larger than the comprehensions. This comprehension
on the last line is clearly quicker.
So I'll just run that again.
Same result.
And pretty much in every case, we're getting the nested comprehension.
The value's smaller than the other two there.
We had a weird little result the first time we ran it, but ultimately, you can see that's fairly consistent.
So our program's timing all three snippets of code. All we have to do now is try to make sense of the values we're
getting.
Now that's not as straightforward as it seems.
If it was there wouldn't be such a great variation in the results that we're getting.
So if you do run the program quite a few times, you may find that nested_comp value is ocassionally higher
than the others.
I think that may have been the case the first time we ran it,
if I recall correctly.
But in any event, that will probably happen if you do run it a number of times.
So these values do need to be interpreted carefully, and the documentation does state that you can't
perform statistical analysis on the timings.
And if we just quickly go back to the documentation,
and see this note there. It's attempting to calculate mean and standard deviation from the result vector
and report these.
However this is not very useful. In the typical case,
the lowest value gives a lower bound to how fast your machine can run the given code snippet.
High values in the result vector are not typically, or typically are not, caused by variability in Python's
speed, but by other processes interfering with your timing accuracy.
So the min of the result is probably the only number you should be interested in.
After that you should look at the entire vector, and apply common sense rather than statistics.
So basically the lowest timing for the snippet's valid.
That's the fastest time that your computer has executed the snippet in. Alright, go back to our code, and high values have to
be treated carefully - they don't reflect just the execution of your code.
So as I've said previously, all sorts of things are going on in a modern, multitasking operating system.
The timings on Linux may be more consistent.
The Windows operating system has all sorts of services running by default.
Basically, anything could be going on while you're timing your code.
Now that's bad enough, and we can make it far worse.
Like we're doing here. Now,
this may not work very well on the video.
But I'm going to try and demonstrate it anyway.
Now the reason it might not work here, is that I have a high end Mac computer with 32 gigs of RAM,
in order to record high definition video, as we're doing here.
If you're running something similar, then you also may not see the problem very clearly.
But let's have a go anyway, and see what we can do.
Close down the Run Window. We're going to increase the number of runs for each snippet.
So basically, we're going from one thousand to ten thousand, for each.
Now when I run the program again, watch the output window carefully.
Now don't worry about reading it.
What we're interested in, is how smoothly the output appears.
So when I run it again, I'm going to click on the run button.
Now you may have noticed that the output didn't appear smoothly.
It sort of shuddered a few times, a block of output, rather, appeared.
Then there was a brief pause, then the next block printed out.
Now I said that printing is a relatively slow operation, and the terminal also has to manage output that
runs off the top of the screen.
So obviously, I can scroll back. If I go right up to the top, you can see significant amounts of input there, right up to the
top here. We can't actually get back to the first line of output. We don't see the program starting and
so forth.
Some of the output's clearly been lost at this point. Now either IntelliJ's console or your operating system's
terminal has to manage that.
Now it's keeping track of the lines of output, and removing output from the buffer while we're timing.
And that's going to have an impact on the smooth execution of the code we're timing.
So as a general rule, I'd suggest not including screen output in the code you're trying to time.
If you do that to the, then the last sentence to that note previously
is particularly relevant.
Apply common sense rather than statistics.
That's a very important comment in any case.
OK, so I left our code unchanged, so that we could focus on using the timeit function, and also so that
I could show you this issue with timing code that sends data to external devices; screens, printers, disk
drives, et cetera.
So as I said, we're not really comparing like with like.
I'm just going to close down our Run Window now. So basically, the first two snippets of code create a list,
print it, and then throw it away.
And that's these first two snippets of code here.
The "Nested for loops" and "List comprehensions".
And the third snippet is creating a nested list, then iterating over it to print it out.
You can that there, starting on line 45.
So leaving aside the issue with print, our timings are a valid way to help decide which is the more efficient
approach for displaying the data.
Or is it?
So let's actually have another quick look at the documentation again.
We get back.
So just above this, this note here that we just looked at previously,
there's actually another note. This one's in the discussion about the timeit function,
as you can see there, on the screen. So by default, timeit temporarily turns off garbage collection during the timing.
The advantage of this approach is that it makes independent timings more comparable.
The disadvantage is that the garbage collection might be an important component of the performance of
the function being measured.
If so, garbage collection can be re-enabled as the first statement in the setup string.
So timeit turns off garbage collection, so that it doesn't interrupt the execution of our code, and alter
the timings.
Now the note mentions a disadvantage, which is that the garbage collection may be an important component
of the performance being measured.
Now here we're comparing two code snippets that create and destroy objects, with another snippet that
doesn't.
Garbage collection is an important aspect of their relative performance, in this case.
So the note talked about, well shows,
you can actually see there, how to enable garbage collection by including this call up here, to gc.enable()
in the setup code.
Now we've already got a setup string.
So let's go back and try adding that and see what happens.
So back to IntelliJ, and up to our setup string.
We'll put that in as the first line,
gc.enable().  Now
garbage collection takes time.
So before I run the program again, have a think about what you'd expect the results to be.
Now remember to consider your own computer, as well as my Mac that's got loads of RAM.
So let's run the program now and see if we get the results that we're expecting here.
Now strangely, allowing garbage collection can improve the performance of code that creates and deletes
a lot of objects.
Now there may be a smaller difference in the results, although you may need to run the program several
times to get a better feel for how the times are changing.
You can see here, in this example, the loop and comp was actually quicker,
and the nested comp was second. But let's just run it a few more times.
This time you can see Nested comp is the fastest.
We're now getting a more consistent approach here, by the looks.
Nested comp was actually slower.
Around a few more times. Nested comp was fastest, fastest and round about the same.
You can see we've got varying results there, but in general what you should find, is that the Nested comp still
seems to be the fastest, as a rule, with the nested loop coming second.
But that's not always the case, as you saw when I was testing this.
One thing that is clear here, is that there doesn't seem to be a huge difference. At best, we're saving a few milliseconds
over 10,000 executions of the code.
But again I want to make the point that this really isn't the best example.  We've seen how to use the
timeit module, and we've seen some of the pitfalls you'll encounter when timing code.
So it's important to use common sense when interpreting the results and to make sure that you're comparing
code that really does do the same thing.
And we've also seen that attempting to profile code that communicates with any external device can
be tricky.
Now the operation of the external device, whether it's a screen, a disk drive, or anything else external
to your computer's processor, can have an unpredictable impact on the results.
Now in the next video, we're going to modify this code so that all three snippets are doing the
same thing.
We'll also use the timeit function to look at another few examples, to get a better feel for how
timeit can help to choose the most efficient algorithm.
So I'll see you in the next video.